We have seen, um, with AI overviews,
meaningfully longer queries. Um, we see
more natural language queries. Um, but
it's also not even something as basic of
that. It can also be, um,
like you were searching for restaurants.
We we used to laugh about the like
before I worked on, um, search, I worked
on maps and local some of the
intersection with search. And people
would just be like restaurants New York.
And you're like,
what do you want me to do with that
query, right? Like, okay, the best
restaurants in New York are going to
take 3 months and 99.9% of the
population can't afford to go to them,
okay? But like, are you picking 10
random ones, etc. But like,
part of why people will do that is they
had a much more complex I want a
restaurant in this location for five
people. Um, it can't be too pricey. I
have a vegan member. I also have like I
have kids. Like that was the question
they had in their mind.
Um, and in the old word of keywordese,
none of that information would be kind
of spread throughout the web and so you
wouldn't feel confident you could just
put in the question.
>> Yep.
>> Um, and now with like AI overviews and
AI MO, you can start to actually, and
you see people do this, they tell you
their real problem.
Right? They don't take their need and
translate it to what the computer
understands.
They try to give the computer their
actual need and expect us to do the
translation.
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy [music] Alloway.
>> Tracy, you know, when we talk about AI,
we talk a lot about the the big labs,
the big independent labs, particularly
OpenAI and Anthropic. But of course, we
know that the the legacy tech companies,
the so-called hyperscalers, etc.,
they're not just going to give up this
this groundbreaking technology without a
fight.
>> No, um, and we've certainly seen various
efforts to I don't want to say catch up,
but like to keep pace, I guess. Yeah.
>> You know, one of the So, of like the
major
of the major legacy companies, you know,
which I would say are like Microsoft,
Amazon,
Meta, and Google. I would say that like
clearly, or sorry, Alphabet. I would say
clearly like Alphabet is the one that
has the model that people are you know,
talking about it, Gemini, right? And in
a way, that's kind of surprising because
one common intuition that people have is
that companies aren't very good at
developing the thing that disrupts their
own legacy business, right? This is a
just sort of like a phenom a famous sort
of B-school thing that people talk about
all the time.
>> Yeah, so the issue, one would think,
with AI and Google in particular is that
Google, you know, famous for its search.
No one believes me, by the way, the
first time I ever used Google in like, I
guess it was the either late 1990s or
early 2000s, I told my parents to invest
in the company, and they didn't listen
to them. Yeah.
>> They don't believe me, either, but I
swear I did.
>> I You know what? I um
>> The first time I used it, I was like,
"Oh my god, this is so much better."
>> So, I feel so dumb, because I remember
the Google IPO very well.
And I thought I was very smart, cuz it
was like I was 20, I think it was 2004.
I was very I thought I was very smart
back in those days. I don't think it Now
now that I'm older, I realize I I don't
know anything. But I thought I was very
smart. I was like, "Oh, these sheep,
they're just buying, you know, it's like
it's overvalued. It's like, should I
short this IPO? It's like a bubble,
etc." Thank god I didn't like put on
some short trade and go bankrupt. But
like I It never occurred to me to go
long, cuz I don't And I think it's the
journalist temperament, we're all like
very cynical and all. You have to be an
optimist to be an investor.
>> you have to be an optimist, you have to
be willing to be part of the crowd, you
have to ride the wave. We don't really
like riding waves, etc. And so like I
was like, "Oh, should I short this?"
Anyway, I should have bought it.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, well
>> I should have held it.
>> All right.
>> You know what? I should have bought it,
even though we don't trade like should
have bought it in like 2023 when
everyone was saying that ChatGPT was
going to eat its lunch, should have
bought it a year later when people were
saying, "Oh,
Gemini is too woke, etc." All these
turns there are opportunities. And but
anyway, I'm happy to just talk about it.
>> All right. Now that we've gone on a very
long segway, what we are getting at It's
an important segway. What we are getting
at is that in theory, AI would seem to
pose a threat to Google's core business,
which is search. So, if you type in a
query in Google now, um I think I have
one open from the last time we recorded
a podcast. I don't know why I was
looking at this up. It says, "Can you
see tankers physically from the Strait
of Malacca?"
>> Oh, yeah.
>> "in the Strait of Malacca from
Singapore." So, if you type that into
Google,
>> Yeah.
>> it used to be you would just get a bunch
of search results.
>> That's right.
>> Now, you got an AI overview, which
basically pulls in a bunch of results
from other pages and gives you a sort of
summary. And so, the question is, if
people are just going to be looking at
these summaries,
>> Mhm.
>> instead of actually going to the pages
that Google Search used to turn out as
links at the top of the page, what does
that mean for traffic via Google Search?
>> Well, and then the other big element
here, which is that, you know, people
stop like clicking as much on links or
even seeing links, what does that mean
for the advertising business? If the
expectation is that you like see the
answer right there, etc. And, you know,
one of the questions we have about Open
AI in particular is have have ever going
to be able to launch like an advertising
big business? Can these two things
combine, etc. We know that to this day
that um Google Search ads are the the
greatest money printer that's ever been
invented basically in the history of the
world. And so, how this is going to
interact and how Google is thinking
about these questions, I just say it's
um it's a little unclear to me because
yeah, it's nice. I could just I I I put
in the same question, "Can you see
tankers in the Strait of Malacca?" I
don't know if these are right. I don't
know if the AI I don't know if the AI
overview is right, but it's there.
>> It's there.
Um so, lots of interesting questions
here. Also, AI slop, right? Like, are
the search results that are being turned
up actually of any certain quality,
right?
>> It's a great point. And one of the
reasons, perhaps, that a lot of people,
and I would include myself in this,
use AI more and more is cuz I have like,
you know, I have some issues, let's say,
with uh search.
>> [laughter]
>> So, anyway.
>> I'm going to clip that. I have some
issues, Joe Weisenthal.
>> Anyway,
we really do have the perfect guest to
talk about this. Someone who is like
really literally right in the middle of
all of this and can answer all of our
questions. We're going to be speaking
with Liz Reid. She's the VP of search at
Google, and she's been at the company
for over 20 years, has been in the
current role, has been on the search
team for a few years, and so, um we're
going to answer get hopefully get
answers to all these questions. So, Liz,
thank you so much for coming on the Odd
Lots podcast.
>> Thank you for having me.
Delighted to be here today.
>> Why don't you just start by telling us
like, what's your role at Google? What
does it mean? Okay, you're the VP of
search at a company that people know for
being a search engine company. But, what
is your What is your title actually
entail?
>> I lead the the search team um that you
can think of as sort of covering the
product, the engineering, um our user
designers, and data science. Sort of the
the team that fundamentally builds the
search product that you use.
>> So, how much of your day-to-day is taken
up thinking about AI nowadays versus
like, let's say, 2 years ago?
>> 2 years ago, I would say it was also
still a a fairly large amount. Um I
think AI is a deeply transformative
technology in what it opens up. Um and I
think AI has been in search um for many
years in different forms. It's much more
in the forefront these days with things
like AI overviews and AI mode. Um but,
if you go back several years, it was how
we transformed a bunch of ranking with
efforts like BERT and MUM
that were built on some of the early
Transformer breakthroughs. Um, but at
the end of the day, you know, and if you
go back, once upon a time AI didn't just
refer to generative AI, it referred to,
you know, general machine learning and
other things like that. And
you know, in the early 2000s, Google had
spell correction.
Which felt sort of revolutionary at the
time that used AI.
>> Right. No one calls spell check AI
anymore. Yeah.
>> Nobody calls spell check AI. But like it
was at the time, right? Um, on the
thing. It just shows you how far the the
world has come. Um, but the opportunity
to really transform search and and
realize Google's mission at a new level
is is really exciting and an amazing um
opportunity and very humbling
to to do this um for a product that so
many people use.
>> You mentioned BERT, um, that my little
software hobby project of training a
machine learning model to tell whether
something is more indicative of the
written or spoken word is based on BERT.
So thank you for developing that and
thank you for open sourcing it so that
someone like myself can uh, train it.
But talk to us about like
just how you're thinking about this core
tension. That for years Google had a
business of you go to a you put in a
term in a search bar and then people
click out. And some people and some of
the clicks were to organic results and
some of the clicks were um, to paid
results. And now people are we're
entering this world in which people
expect to get whatever they want right
there from the query without that
impulse for a click. And you have a
business that is still dominated by that
click out one way or another. So just
like you know, well and we I want to
drive into the details, but big picture,
is that a real tension?
>> I think what's interesting about it is
that um, the space of search is very big
and what people are trying to do is very
big.
Um, and sometimes people really want
quick answers and they want it right in
front of them. And And sometimes they
want to go deep, or they want to hear
from particular individuals, right? Um I
think there's this sort of myth that
people want AI or the web. Um
that I don't that I actually think what
we see is that people want AI and the
web together, okay? Um there are
certainly questions for which like you
just want the quick answer, and then
you're done. And And that's been true in
many ways for years, right? Like we'll
talk about this with the AI, but I bet
most of the time you look up the
weather, you just want to know what the
temperature is, and you're done. Right?
And you don't once. But then you're
going to go on a trip, and you're going
to go and actually dig in more because
you're going surfing um on other pieces.
Um I think if you think about this,
people like, "Oh, well, I have an
answer. I don't. So, why would I do an
ad?" Well, like the answer doesn't buy
the pair of shoes. You actually have to
buy the shoes, right? So, you still have
to go pick a merchant for that. Um
people care
often to hear people's perspectives,
right? Like you'll talk about Okay,
well, we want a bunch of answers. And
yet this is like a golden age for
podcasts, right? So, clearly people
sometimes want to spend a couple of
seconds, and other times they'll spend a
whole hour listening to things. And so,
one of the things we see with the shift
with AI overviews is that um
you get more of this pronouncement with
what's what's your goal, okay? If all
you were going to do was go to the web
page, see the fact, and immediately
click back. You're going to spend like a
half a second on the page, okay? Um you
see those things shift. But if what you
were going to go and do was read an
article for 5 minutes,
you're still interested in reading that
article for 5 minutes, right? AI will
might help you point to the right page,
so we see fewer bounce clicks where a
user would sort of go and immediately
come back cuz they weren't happy. You
see people go though, and they want to
hear from other people. They want to
hear their expertise, their perspective,
their unique take. Um
you know, I I take uh fashion This an
interesting example sometimes. Um if you
hate fashion, then like you you love
using chatbots to replace the need,
right? Like
>> [laughter]
>> you didn't really want to spend any
time, that's fine. But if you were
someone who's spending a lot of time
reading influencers and what their
interest in the fashion, you have not
decided to replace that with a chatbot.
Right? You're still going to want to
hear from those fashion taste makers.
Um, and so there's an opportunity with
AI overviews to um help you get started
and then make it easy for you to dig in
um and connect. And I think people's
interest in connecting with other people
is um just as strong these days in many
ways.
>> Just at a simplistic level, can you tell
me like how does Google determine
whether it shows the AI overview or not?
So if I type in corgi into Google
search,
I I'm biased cuz I have two corgis, but
it just gives me a bunch of links to
like the American Kennel Club and like
the corgi subreddit and things like
that. If I type in what is a corgi
, it gives me the AI
overview. Is it just everything with a
question mark returns an AI result or
how are you actually deciding what to
present to users?
>> No, um what we try and like
an important premise of this is that we
shouldn't give you AI for the sake of
giving AI, right? The point is for it
when we think it adds value it to
people. Um and so it's not really
associated with question marks. Question
marks are often when people are looking
for more of a description or they have a
harder question which maybe a single web
page doesn't answer or whatever else. Um
but what we're really using is looking
at signals from users to say um does the
AI overview provide additional value or
not? And so um most people
I don't like I haven't studied corgi the
corgi query in detail, but for a query
like that, probably what we're seeing is
um that most people aren't just trying
to figure out what is a corgi. Maybe
they want to see pictures about it. They
want to click on um knowing more about
the dog breed because they're trying to
engage in it. And so, um we basically
learn over time based on user signals,
the same way we learn about like when
should you show the weather one box, and
when should you show local results, and
when should you show sports, um that the
AI overview provides additional value,
great, we show it. Um it doesn't, then
we don't want to get out of the way,
right? Um you don't want your search for
Wikipedia,
you go and you type in Wikipedia, which
a lot of people do,
they want to get to Wikipedia. They
don't want to go and say, "Let's give me
the history of Wikipedia." That's not
why they searched for that, right? Um if
they searched for Odd Lots, right, they
probably want to quickly get to your
podcast. Um and so, we have a variety of
signals that try and help us understand
um when is it adding value or not, um
and we get smarter over time.
As as people um both um change how they
ask questions, um as the models get
smarter, right? Like we don't want to
put in an AI overview if we think it's
not going to be high quality. Um so, as
the models have gotten more powerful, we
can cover more cases, um and just
continue to develop really with the
focus being what is the best response to
give a user for the question they've
asked.
>> I have a question about what you see
among user behavior, and my question is
like,
do you see the same user or a cohort of
people who use both google.com
and gemini.google.com,
and do you see distinct patterns of
queries from the same user, but uh
different types of searches, or do
people just sort of throw the question
mostly in the Google search box and
start from there, or do you see people
who just use Gemini and not move um
and do everything there? Like what do
you see in terms of sort of
um I would guess emergent patterns about
how an individual chooses which of the
sites to enter into first, and how they
do different queries in each one?
>> So, maybe just so we're all talking
about the same thing. There's sort of
your main search page. yeah. There's AI
mode.
>> Yeah.
>> Um that's part of search, and then
there's the Gemini app, right? Across.
Um and I would say like there's a lot of
users, so their behavior varies across
all of them. Um but there are some
patterns, okay? Um there's plenty of
people who co-use across them.
>> Okay.
>> Um there's plenty of people that are
actually using several AI products um
right now just in general, right? Not
even just within Google. Um across
Gemini and search, um
the more informational ones, um like if
it's an informational query, then the
then the probability that they're using
search or AI mode is going to be higher.
Um if it's a creative query, it's a
product like a more of a productivity
question, you know, I want to like,
"Please rewrite this to make it sound
more formal."
>> Right.
>> Right. Those type questions are going to
be more Gemini oriented. Um
between AI mode and and search, the main
search page, um
some people use AI mode mostly via AI
overviews. They start in AI overviews
and they transition. For those who go
direct to AI mode, um they tend to do
that for queries that they consider um
sort of more complex, longer questions,
>> Yeah.
>> questions where they expect that they're
going to do more follow-ups. Um versus
if you're doing a very browsy query, um
you might choose to prefer all of the
SERP. If you know that like your goal is
to just get to a particular webpage, um
you're more likely to start with the the
search result page. Um
but, you know, there's obviously overlap
in the use cases, but across search and
AI mode, AI mode tends to be sort of
more longer, complex, more
conversational queries versus more
traditional queries. And between Gemini
and search, there's more of a
productivity and creativity versus
information slant on them.
>> So, since we're talking about user
behavior, one of the things that seems
to be happening now is people will use
um an LLM
doesn't matter which one. They'll ask a
question and then they will go and
fact-check the answer that they get on
Google. And I'm really curious if that's
something that you're aware of as a sort
of user behavior. And if the idea is
that maybe Google becomes maybe not an
AI overviewer per se, but maybe the sort
of fact-checker of last resort for other
LLMs.
>> I think we're definitely aware that that
um
people use um Google as a fact-checker
for for some of their LLM use case. Um I
think people have used Google as a
place to fact-check information
pre-LLMs for a number of things. A
friend tells them something, you know,
and sort of come. Um but I I think
people use search for a lot more than
just fact-checking, right? Or even just
looking up facts.
Um
you know, they want to go browse what
they're going to go buy. They want to go
check up the sports score of of the
latest team. Um and we do see with um AI
overviews that with the presence of AI
overviews, people are asking more longer
questions. They're asking more
conversational questions. And so some of
these questions they started bringing to
an LLM um as we brought AI overviews in,
um they they they took on those same
types of questions and have brought them
to to search.
>> One of the complaints about search, and
I would say I've complained about this
or complained about it, is how many of
the um results in the serp are like very
like
almost like too timely. Let's say
someone enters the news. There's a
headline about so-and-so. I'm like, "I'm
really curious about this person." And
so I like search their name and I get
like 10 results or however many results
all from the last day since they made
the news. And it actually is sort of
difficult for me to find information
that didn't have the context of the
news, so it was like unbiased in some
way.
Start first start with there. Is there a
reckon like
is that recognized as an issue cuz I
certainly feel it as a user, but I'm
curious from your perspective at Google
whether this is something that you think
about as a way in which search becomes
less than ideal.
>> One of the things that's um
generally very very challenging about
search is that um
people enter the same query with a like
that's often very short
>> Yeah.
>> with a lot of different intents in mind,
right? And so um
you know, in a bunch of the examples
where where you have probably our data
says that that most people just want to
see the recent articles and those are
the ones that get all of the clicks, but
you didn't, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And so um how do we figure out across
all of the different intents and and
match them across? Um and so I think
there's this question about both how do
you get the different facets of of a
question, um how can you personalize the
results more effectively for people? Um
I do see um
more um
this is anecdotal as opposed to sort of
complete data, but but your example, um
people using AI mode and AI overviews
for some of the people queries to like
understand more about the person
>> Yeah.
>> independent of the rest of the the news
articles because it you know, if you
don't know who most of the people
searching for it know who the person is,
but some of the people searching for it
don't. Um and so you can you can see
behavior like that. Um but I do think
one of the um
sort of interesting things about the
evolution of AI is that that people stop
talking just in keywordese as much and
they start expressing more of of what
they want. Um and then that becomes much
easier for us to give an answer, right?
So if you say, you know, tell me about
someone versus like what's new with
someone. That's actually much easier for
us to figure out how to give better
results than if all we just say is
someone, right? Um,
we used to talk about the the
an example query in different ways that
is falafel. What do you want to know
with falafel? Some people don't know
what falafel is, they want a definition.
Some people want recipes. Some people
want to find where to eat. Some people
want nutritional information.
They all just use the word
falafel.
Um,
and that's just harder to figure out how
across all of them we do that. Um, we
also see that with tensions on things
like, well, do you want video results or
do you want more more text-based
results?
People are people are very opinionated
about what the right answer is, but they
are not very opinionated in the same
direction.
>> Just to
>> Um, and so we try and meet, you know,
multiple billions of people's needs at
once.
>> Just to be clear, the falafel example is
great. Would you say that today you see
a greater diversity of falafel related
queries, whereas maybe like 5 or 10
years ago you just get falafel, and now
people know that they could type in what
where is where does falafel come from?
What is a falafel falafel recipe, etc.
Have people gotten more sophisticated
over time in their query specifications
about falafel?
>> I don't know falafel very specifically,
um, but in general but in general, yes.
Okay. Um, we have seen um, with AI
overviews meaningfully longer queries.
Um, we see more natural language
queries. Um, but it's also not even
something as basic of that. It can also
be um,
like you were searching for restaurants.
We we used to laugh about the like
before I worked on um, search, I worked
on maps and local some of the
intersection with search. And people
would just be like, restaurants New
York. And you're like,
what do you want me to do with that
query, right? Like,
okay, the best restaurants in New York
are going to take 3 months and 99.9% of
the population can't afford
to go to them, okay? But like, are you
picking 10 random ones, etc. But, like,
part of why people would do that is they
had a much more complex I want a
restaurant in this location for five
people.
Um it can't be too pricey. I have a
vegan member. I also have like I have
kids. Like, that was the question they
had in their mind. Um and in the old
world of keywordese, none of that
information would be kind of spread
throughout the web. And so, you wouldn't
feel confident you could just put in the
question.
>> Yep.
>> Um and now with like AI and IMO, you can
start to actually, and you see people do
this, they tell you their real problem.
Right? They don't take their need and
translate it to what the computer
understands.
They try to give the computer their
actual need and expect us to do the
translation. And I think that's um
really exciting to see because one, we
can be more helpful, but also like those
are real problems people had.
Um let's actually, if you go back to the
mission was organize the world's
information and make it universally
accessible and useful. But, like, that
useful part, right? It's not just that
it's organized. Is it useful to you? Um
and I think one of the most exciting
things about AI, um the transformation
going on right now, is that you can
actually make information much more
useful to people.
Um
and that really opens up. That makes it
um so so people just ask more questions
because we can actually do a better job
meeting their needs. Does that come with
any like
complications in terms of privacy or
competition for Google if people aren't
using keywords as much anymore if
they're doing basically like query brain
dumps into the prompt and saying like,
"You know, I am so-and-so. I have a kid.
I live here. I want to do the following
things. This is my issue." Does that Is
that like an added layer of complexity
that you have to deal with as like a
large search company?
>> From a privacy perspective, we give
people sort of um a range of different
things. They can be sort of in
incognito. They can be signed out. They
can be signed in
um
across. So, I and I think Google has a
long tradition of really treating
people's data
with a great deal of care and having
cutting-edge security and privacy by
design. So, I think people are seeing
the value and they have continued their
trust in Google.
I think it means you have to do it's a
harder job on quality, right? You you
have to take this question that's many
parts and you have to figure out how you
break it apart.
And you have to do
work to think about things like latency
because you can't just, you know, if
everyone uses the same keyword and it's
not personalized, then you can cache it
all.
If all of a sudden the queries get much
more diverse, you know, it has
consequences there.
But I think we we just see that it's
very empowering people, right? That it
that it takes some of the work out of
searching. You know,
I think sometimes people think, "Oh,
a few years ago they said, like, "Oh,
what more can you do with Google
Search?" But like if you actually ask
them, "Okay, when was the last time you
spent 20 minutes searching when you
would have
preferred to spend two?" It's actually
not that hard for me. "Oh, the last time
I was trying to like go find a service
provider. The last time I was trying to
go like do these bigger tasks in life."
And so it's been kind of exciting to
just
like make people's lives easier by
helping them address their real need.
>> I have so many different theoretical
questions I can ask. Here's one
actually, you know what? This is
something that was inspired by our
producer Dash, a conversation that I had
with him 10 minutes ago prior to this
and related to something else.
I imagine in your career at Google
spanning over two decades at this point,
you've been involved in quite a bit of
recruiting and recruiting software
engineers in particular and I imagine
that's particularly important aspect in
some way or another for the VP of
Search.
Is the nature of, given what we've seen
with AI coding and so forth.
When you're doing one of these,
um, you know, lead code software
developer interviews, etc., is it
different today than 5 years ago? Do you
have to think really differently about
the battery of technical questions that
you would propose to a software engineer
today given the fund just the
restructuring of the nature of the job
in a world of AI-generated code?
>> I think the process is definitely
evolving. I wouldn't say that we have,
uh, perfected the science yet.
>> Okay.
>> Um, but there's there's sort of, um,
uh, two angles in which you're thinking
about it, right? One is, um,
you don't want to ask questions for
which they just go and type in the
answer in the chatbot and recite it back
to you. Okay? So, you need to make sure
like to the extent that your goal is to
understand are they critically thinking?
Are they able to think through a problem
and do that? You want to make sure that
that's actually what you're assessing,
right? And so, is it in person? How are
you doing that on on on some basic way?
Um, but there's the other thing that I
think, um,
you know, the tools are powerful. You
can use them in ways that make you more
effective and you can use them in ways
that make you less productive. Um, how
do you think, um, as the fluency is
changing with with AI, um, that sort of
what a software engineer, the way a
software engineer might approach a
problem now is different than they might
have approached a problem 5 years ago
without some of these tools. Um, and so,
I think we're all learning, um,
how to change asking that question,
right? Are you building up that
expertise? Are you building up that
fluency? And the the fluency isn't
fixed. Like, what was possible with the
tools
6 months ago, let alone 2 years ago, is
different than what's possible now, and
in 6 months it'll be different. So, you
So, you have to start thinking about
how, um,
part of your interview is thinking
about, um, sort of fluency with the use
of tools in the same way that like when
IDs became uh important or when people
stop using assembly language and they
started doing Java, right? You had to
sort of evolve
um the interviews. It's just that it's
happening very fast.
>> Okay.
>> Right? Um and so we all have to be um
on our toes, but it's exciting. Like you
play with this tool and it doesn't work
for something and then and then it's not
like play with it 2 years later. It's
like play with it 3 months later. Maybe
the tool will now work for these things.
>> Okay, well, speaking of tools, um I
mean, one of the things I Joe, I think
you've said this. We've been playing
around with Claude code. This idea that
actually when you start vibe coding
everything and telling your agent to do
everything, it feels like you don't even
necessarily need like [laughter] a
computer, much less a search engine,
presumably. So, I'm just curious, if you
gaze like 5 or 10 years into the future,
what do you think the default entry
point for interacting with the web is
actually going to be? Is it going to be
a search engine like Google? Is it going
to be a specific LLM? Is it going to be
my personal agent that I've vibe coded
for all of my preferences?
>> Yeah, just Can I just add on to this
question? I thought this like this is
something I think about. Like if I want
to send an email to Tracy today, then
what I have to do like I find the tab in
my browser, I scroll over there, okay,
that's my Gmail tab, etc., whatever. I
would like to just, you know, be in my
terminal. It'd be so much easier to say,
"Here, send an email to Tracy saying
this." There's all these steps that I
currently do because of the nature of
graphical
graphical user interfaces that once that
now that I've gotten in like Claude
coding or whatever, like feel a little
clunky. It feels a little yesterday. And
so like I got Yeah, I'm extremely
curious about like will the web with
these series of boxes that we drag and
drop, etc., is that the future or will
it just be someone talking in English to
their computer?
>> I don't think we like 10 years is a long
time right now where the tech is.
>> Um as you can imagine
>> [laughter]
>> Will we still have browsers in 3 months
from now?
>> In the what? I like as you know as
people like okay, we believe in 10 years
we'll achieve AGI. Will anyone be doing
anything the same? Okay. So uh with that
with that aside, um I think there are
some things I I I believe in and some
things I think we don't know. Um
I think you already see if you go back
10, you know, 20 years ago that the way
you interact with the tech has evolved a
bunch, right? It used to be it was just
the laptop. Well, now it's the phone.
Well, now it's also the watch, okay? In
some cases it's the glasses. Um this
sense that it should feel like um
the the information is sort of um
at your fingertips in whatever medium is
useful, right? And but I don't know that
this becomes a um
We haven't so far replaced all of the
old ones, right? Like you use the phone
a lot more,
but my guess is you're not doing all
your cloud code work on your phone and
you're doing some of it on a desktop.
>> That's true.
>> Right? The the introduction of the watch
has supplemented, but it hasn't
eliminated the desktop, right? So what's
been interesting actually is that it it
hasn't um gone in the direction of
converging to the answer.
Um it's actually increased the form
factors and so that you want to be able
to access this information sort of
wherever you are in whatever form factor
makes sense. And so, you know, will it
be glasses? Will it be something else?
Um
quite possibly, but but let's say let's
even say it's glasses become a big deal.
Glasses are very small screens even
there. You're probably not going to do
your big productivity thing on desktop.
So I think what you'll see is that the
access point is not confined to one
thing. Um but that the um the the key is
to eliminate the friction, right? In the
toil. To your point, you had to do six
steps. You didn't want to do the six
steps. Why should you do the six steps?
Okay?
Um,
I think you see that like some things
are much easier to do with a chat
interface, and then some things
actually a chat interface is a super
slow way to go do, right? Like if you
have a list and you have to go say,
"Please remove
this long title for the 10th item."
This actually is much harder to do with
chat than like an interface that that
does that, right? Um, so I don't think
it necessarily converges on a single
thing. I do think it should feel much
more adaptive to your point about like,
"Well, if this is the way you prefer to
interact, not just where you are, but
how you interact, and can you customize,
and and can you create um,
sort of does like to what extent do the
user interfaces look designed for you
versus look designed for general, and
can you have influence in them? I think
you'll see that.
I do think we sometimes
um,
like we're very aware of what doesn't
work well. We're not necessarily aware
of what does work well. Like people
spend um, companies spend huge efforts
working on how do they do shopping carts
really well.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay? This belief that sort of like
the the chatbot will have a more
optimized shopping cart for every
shopping cart place in the world
than the one you go to every day. I
don't know.
Not not clear.
>> Hm.
>> Right? Um, for those things. Um,
but I do think it should feel much more
personal, it should feel much more
dynamic, it should feel much more
ambient and available to you. Um, and I
don't think it will be one size fits
all, either per person or per form
factor.
>> First of all, that makes a lot of sense.
On a separate note, I've been reading
some articles. There were I think that I
saw one it there was a big one in The
Information recently. It was talking
about one of your competitors, um, Meta.
It's kind of Yeah, it's a competitor.
And there was like everyone's token
matching there and there's a token
leaderboard and people were competing to
show that they're using AI more than
others. And it for my perspective that
boggles my mind because compute is a
cost and just using compute per se does
not strike me as a particularly good way
of measuring who is productively
contributing to the company. I mean, I
could certainly find an easy quick
recursive way to burn tokens if
>> And generate a bunch of AI images of
corgis.
>> Yeah, generate it and then tell the tell
it create one that just keep telling it
to improve itself, etc. The flip side
what some people say is like, "Look,
it doesn't matter at this point because
everyone has to figure out how they're
going to use AI productively in their
work. So, you know what? Don't even
worry about metering AI. Tell everyone
to pedal to the metal and AI use and if
someone is maxing out on tokens, it
means they're experimenting with
something and then they'll find
something that really is a productivity
enhancer." I'm curious if from your
perspective it makes sense to like
essentially see token consumption or
compute use as a proxy for like someone
who's doing their job aggressively.
Well.
>> I think the thing with all of these
proxy metrics is if you use them
blindly, you're going to run yourself
into trouble. Okay? Um, if you as if you
as a leader sort of don't use judgment
on them, then you get the example of
like I will just create a job that runs
in the background and does dumb things
to to do the tokens, right? Um,
so, you know, as a [laughter] leader,
your your job is to sort of have like
use good judgment and not just think
about the incentives. So, if somebody
isn't playing around at all with the
tools
when we know that they can improve
productivity, then we need to figure out
like why and how we help support like
maybe there's some issue with with the
part of the system they're working on
and we should go fix or maybe we just
need to help upskill them, or whatever
else the case is.
Um
if
I do think there is a level of
experimentation required, right? So, I
don't think it works if your answer is
like, "You need to ensure that all your
token use is completely optimized." Like
>> Yeah.
>> it's not going to work, right? People
have to learn what's possible. They're
doing different jobs.
Um the tech is changing.
But, it can neither be like
don't use the tools, or
just max your tools blindly. It's a It's
a noisy signal, but it's a signal,
right? So, go look at it and understand
as a as a place of where to look. Don't
use it as a final judgment.
>> So, speaking of measures, um and not
over simplifying them, I want to go back
to the the sort of core tension that we
started the conversation out with, which
is, you know, the AI results versus
people actually clicking through to
results and generating traffic. And I
know you were talking about
AI being expansionary or complementary
for Google Search. But, I'm very curious
how you actually measure that. And the
more granular you can get on this, the
better. Like, what are you specifically
looking at to say that actually this is
something that's good for our business
versus something that's detracting from
the core.
>> Google's guidance and North Star has
always been like focus on the user. So,
so that's our that's our biggest
question at the heart is how do we make
a great experience for for users.
Um
And then, you know, then you want to
then you want to be thoughtful,
obviously, about other concerns. Like,
hey, you like if you don't have a
healthy ecosystem, you can't build in a
serv- a service ongoing. So, you need to
make sure you're nurturing a healthy
ecosystem. You need to like if you have
make no money, then you can't fund
>> Right.
>> this wonderful service. So, you have to
be thoughtful about those, okay? But,
but the the place you start with is try
and build something amazing for users.
Um one of the things we've seen um again
and again with with Google Search is um
if you're doing a really great job, like
people will um not just do another
query, they will they will come back to
you more often. Okay? They will take
their phone out of their pocket an extra
time. Okay? That's a high bar.
Right? Um, it's one thing to go and say
I've showed you something, can you do
can you do one more thing while I'm
showing it to you? It's another thing to
get you to decide you're going to bother
to unlock your phone, you're going to
boot up your desktop, you're going to
navigate in the browser. Um, and so one
of the things we really look for is when
we're doing these changes, does it cause
people um to come to search more often.
Not just use search more often, but but
but come more often. Um, we also do
various like UX um research studies and
try and understand what are people happy
about or not, what are the things they
find are frustrating.
Um, are more users um more users
adopting it, not just how much are they
using it. So we look at a bunch of
different metrics. Um, but one of the
biggest is really like do you choose to
come and ask Google? Like do you
essentially hire Google more often?
Right? Um, for things you need.
Um, and one of the things that's very
surprising
to people at times is um
they think they come somewhere for all
the questions they have already today.
Right? Like maybe they think they come
to Google all the time or they think
they go to Google plus LLMs or Google
plus LLMs plus TikTok plus whatever.
Okay? They think they ask all the
questions they have. Um, but that's not
true.
It you actually make a calculation when
questions go through your mind of like,
is it worth spending any time to figure
out the answer to this question? Okay?
And if the answer is no, then you just
don't ask the question.
Right? Um, and so when we talk about AI
as an expansionary moment, what we
really mean is there's a whole bunch of
questions people have, there's a whole
bunch of curiosity
that is
people are not exploring. And they're
not exploring because they view it as
too difficult or too much time or not
sure that it will be worth it.
Um and AI lowers that barrier. And it
can lower that barrier in um
ways that are sort of um sometimes for
US English speaker are surprising, which
is like
actually in a bunch of countries there's
not all the content in the web in the
language you speak, okay? Um LLMs can
help unlock that content, you know, AI
overviews um because it's using an LLM
can be more multilingual than just the
web corpus is by default, right? Okay,
so suddenly information that wasn't
available to you as a Hindi speaker is
now available. Okay. Um it can be
visual. You had a question about this
flower, you had a question about that
cool purse you saw, like where can you
buy it but you didn't know how to
describe it. It's possible.
Um
it can also just be like my kid has a
question.
Do I say like I don't know or or do I go
ask the question, right? Um you see with
young kids they ask questions all the
time, right? They go why why why why why
why why and you and like at some point
parents are like because or like
>> Stop bothering me. Go ask the LLM.
>> They go okay. But they do that because
because because from a kid's perspective
they assume adults know everything,
right? And it is no cost to them, right?
They're not worried about their time and
other things. As an adult
it's not that you're not curious.
You just don't think everything is known
and you don't have the time, right? And
so if you lower that barrier it allows
you to be that that kid again that just
sort of explores all of these things
um or get started on those projects that
felt daunting or, you know, enables you
to save or learn a new skill or whatever
else. Um and that's really exciting.
>> But I don't want to dismiss the wonder
of being a kid and learning about the
world. Uh but I'm going to sound very
callous in a second. But how do you make
money off of that? Like how do you make
money off of the AI overviews? Is it
just customer retention? Is that what
we're basically boiling it down to? And
then if it is customer retention, then
like you you could have a strong
argument for saying that like everything
can just go through Gemini instead of
search.
>> Search only shows ads on a subset of
queries.
Right? Um
They're like less than a quarter of
queries, right? Um so there's a whole
bunch of queries
pre-AI overviews, right? That that
you don't make money on because many of
them are not of of commercial need,
right? And so, you know, you used your
um
you asked the question about tankers
earlier. Probably pre-AIO, that query
wouldn't have shown ads anyway.
>> It doesn't show ads, by the way. Yeah.
>> it doesn't show ads now. ads before
There's no ads on that query, right?
Nobody's trying to advertise something
on that, okay? So, um
those queries AI overviews, like it
doesn't it doesn't disrupt.
Right? Um then there's a bunch of class
of queries where like you're shopping.
>> Mhm.
>> You still the the presence of an AI
overview or Gemini answers, it doesn't
preclude the need to still
buy the item. So, there's still this
huge opportunity with ads because
there's all of this this choice that's
going. Um
I think you also see that there's an
expansion of queries, right? To this
point. So, you get you get more queries.
Um and so some of those queries are more
commercial. Some of them are not, but
some of them are more commercial. Um and
so those become new opportunities for
ads. Um and there can also be things
like
when the query is underspecified,
um or it's a single query, you actually
don't know as much. So, you can't maybe
target the ads as well.
If people start expressing more of their
need, um if it's more of a conversation,
they're going more down funnel, you can
actually create better ads, right? And
so you can think about new opportunities
for ads formats, right?
Um you know,
some number of years ago people would
have said like, "How can you make money
from a feed?" Okay, well, Instagram ads
are you know, very popular.
>> Yeah.
>> Right? And so there's new ads formats as
you recognize
um new technology and new opportunities,
but the the commercial needs are still
often there and the desire for user
choice is still often there. Um and so
there's still a lot of possibility going
forward. And so it's worked out very
well right now with us in the balance.
>> So I realized that I like I am a user of
both the Gemini app or gemini.google.com
and um just google.com and I have like a
sort of real an intuition of which one I
go to for which purpose. So if I want to
look up the capital of Moldova, I'm not
going I'll just search capital of
Moldova, which I just got
Do you know that what it is, Tracy?
Sorry, I'm not trying to stump you.
>> Uh no. I feel like you're going to say
it and I won't know.
>> Chisinau. I'd never heard of
>> Oh, no, I didn't know that.
>> I didn't know that either. But anyway,
but if I
you know, if I want to understand a sort
of like what are some academic papers
that have been written about why it is
that high-frequency trading firms tend
to not have outside capital, etc. and
what was the theory for this? I think at
this point I would use Gemini for that
and hope to
I'd use Gemini or some other ones, but
within the context of this conversation,
that's more of a Gemini query for me
than a Google one at this point. Will
there always be two boxes or do you
foresee eventually there is just one box
and it will just know this is you know,
like why do we why do we how
why do we need two boxes?
>> I don't know what life will be like in 5
years. Um
I think it's very um
sometimes people want sort of an
experience although the information
needs seems like similar, they actually
want different experiences across, okay?
And so if you take sort of a a pre-elem
example, um
people use YouTube for search. So, in
the US they use it some. In India they
use it a huge amount. They bring a bunch
of queries that you would bring to
Google Search in the US, right? Um
you could say, "Okay, well we haven't
Why haven't we collapsed YouTube and
search search box into one search box,
right?" And do that. Um
And and it hasn't necessarily been the
case. Um we have the the Google app and
we have Chrome.
>> Yep.
>> They both allow you to search and they
both allow you to browse the web.
You have a set of people that love the
Google app and you have a set of people
that love Chrome and you have a set of
people that use both on on a phone. Um
but you can't necessarily convince
either population that they want to
stop using one app and just switch to
the other app. So, I don't think
the the space is so huge and it's
changing so quickly right now that to
sort of
um
be able to know for sure whether or not
you can sort of create one sufficiently
dynamic personalized experience that
one app, one entry point can truly do it
all. Um I don't think we know yet on
that. Um people come for restaurant
searches, they come to Maps and they
come to Google Search.
Um
we have not collapsed the Maps app and
the Search app.
>> Yep.
>> Some point it becomes big, do you you
know, you're putting all this directions
code into the Google Search app, is that
actually useful even if you had a full
Maps view. Um so I think we're just
going to have to learn over time about
what's good, but but the space is really
giant um and they do have um
different emphasis right now on what
they sort of try to excel at. And you
want to make sure that in the
in the attempt to bring things together,
you don't become sort of
only okay at everything.
Um
you know, and you want to make sure that
that you can shine at all the use cases
people need. And and that may mean two
products or that may not or it may be a
third product, right? Like I don't know
in 5 years, there may be a third product
that replaces all the products.
>> [snorts]
>> You have your personal agent, you don't
talk to any products, I don't know.
>> So, I realized we we kind of promised to
talk about AI slop a little bit in this
conversation. So, one of the things
that's happening with AI is not just
that I can ask a bunch of questions I
might not otherwise have had time or the
inclination to ask, but also AI is being
used to generate vast amounts of content
that are aimed at potentially answering
any silly question I or anyone else on
Earth might have.
>> yeah.
>> Yeah, um just churning it out. And I'm
very curious how search is weighing, I
guess, the quality of its results in the
new um slop era of the internet.
>> I think there's a tendency at time
sometimes think about AI slop as if it's
um
Before AI slop, there was slop.
>> [laughter]
>> Yes.
>> Right?
>> Human-generated slop.
>> There
there was human-generated slop. Now,
there's AI-generated slop. So, there
there has there has always been slop on
the web.
Um uh
and so, what doesn't really matter at
some level is how much slop is on the
web. So much as um is there great
content on the web and can you surface
it?
Right?
Um and and this is Google's bread and
butter in ranking is and and has a long
history of looking for spam and trying
to
um
drop it and make sure it doesn't show.
And like we crawl many, many more pages
than we even put in our index. There's
pages we put in the index that we never
surface, right? So, that we can keep
that rate of spam and slop um at a very
low rate. And it is a it is a constant
effort, right? Like it's not a problem
you solve because um some of the people
generating the spam, right? There's a
lot of financial incentives associated
with it.
Um
but
that is what like we we what people have
come to trust Google is that it will
show great information. And it's the
thing that we will continue to put a
huge amount of effort in.
Um and so that's the way I would think
about it. It's not like how much AI slop
or non AI or human generated slop or
you know, um whatever automated slop
pre-AI, post-human generated there is.
Um but
making sure that the information you do
see is trusted.
>> Liz Reid, thank you so much for uh
coming on Odd Lots. That was a
fascinating conversation.
I have like a billion more questions,
but maybe we'll we'll have you on in 3
months when the entire world has changed
and we'll get an update from you.
>> Thank you very much. It was a pleasure
to be on with you all.
>> I like that point about human generated
slop. Do you remember
>> Yeah, but the difference is the volume.
Like I get it, but
>> you remember uh Jason Calacanis's
startup Mahalo?
>> No.
>> So Jason Calacanis, who's been on the
podcast before, he had this startup for
a while. It was like the biggest piece
of garbage in the world. It was called
No, for real. Go People need to go look
at It was called Mahalo and the idea was
like they were just going to have hire a
lot of people to like write articles
that were not very good um to like
appear in Google.
>> Oh, I see. Yeah.
>> And like just swamp the search engine.
>> a famous one that my old colleague at uh
I think at Business Insider Nicholas
Carlson discovered. And it was like um
you if you search like how to play the
xylophone
>> Mhm.
>> there was a Mahalo article for that and
it was I swear [laughter] to god. Okay.
It was step one, decide if you want to
play a xylophone.
>> Well, that's an important step.
>> Step two, get a xylophone.
Step three, learn to read sheet music.
>> [laughter]
>> Step four, practice reading sheet music
and play So, like this is actually like
this I just remembering like it is
people have been trying to like stuff
complete garbage into the search results
for very long time and I I always get a
chuckle thinking about that example and
you should go look for it. Um and so I'm
glad that Nick brought that up.
>> now. I'm very distracted.
>> [laughter]
>> It was so bad.
>> Wait, we're just going to like laugh
about this article for
>> Look at this. Just search it Mahalo how
to play the xylophone.
Um
Yeah, Nick
>> I see something from mahalo.com
on YouTube. That can't be it.
>> Yeah, yeah. Just search So, yeah,
Business Insider February 2011.
Hilariously useless Mahalo guide to
playing the xylophone.
>> Did you write that?
>> No, Nick Carlson wrote it. He wrote that
article. Yeah, yeah.
And I um unfortunately now it's behind a
paywall and itself is covered in sloppy
ads. So, I guess But anyway,
>> [laughter]
>> I'm sorry.
>> Decide whether you want to buy a used or
new xylophone.
Metal xylophones are less expensive than
wooden ones.
>> Please.
>> Wait, that's useful. That's a useful tip
that I did not know.
>> But when you see that, it's like please
AI like save us from this human
generated garbage that was trying to
clog search results before.
>> On a serious note,
>> Yeah.
>> I did think the point about um
not customer retention, but like
expanding the volume of like user
queries on the platform made
[clears throat] a lot of sense.
>> Totally.
>> Um which I hadn't like really considered
that much before. So, even if you do get
a bunch of like no click users,
>> Yeah.
>> they are more inclined to come back to
the platform in the future and maybe
some of that eventually lands in clicks.
>> The other thing I hadn't thought of and
I thought it was a great point, which is
that
there are multiple Google currently runs
multiple search boxes. There's the
YouTube and you look at the Mahalo
article and crack up
>> I am. [laughter]
Step four is experiment with with
different mallets.
>> [laughter]
>> I just really want to play the
xylophone.
>> It's so good. [laughter]
It's so It's so
It's so good.
>> Step five is practice regularly.
>> [laughter]
>> It's crazy. Like I think AI is much
better. Like if I, you know, it's so
good, isn't it? It's like the biggest
steaming pile of garbage you've ever
seen on the internet. [laughter] 20, you
know, 15 years or 10 years before anyone
had ever
>> Can we actually Can we have Cali
Cannon's back on the podcast just to
talk about this?
>> just to like grill him about like what
exactly he was thinking and
you know, and his like his sins against
the internet for having put this on put
this on there.
>> Well, he was an early adopter of non-AI
slop.
>> Yeah, anyway, that point about like
there are multiple search boxes already,
right? There is the YouTube search box.
You're still laughing
>> I'm sorry. I'm trying to make eye
contact with you and not look at my
computer. I'm still thinking about the
xylophone.
>> Should we just leave it Should we all
right. Shall we leave it there? Let's
leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at The Stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Dash
O'Bennett at Dash butt and Kilbrook at
Kilbrook.
>> And for more Odd Lots content, you
should check out our daily newsletter.
You can find that at
bloomberg.com/oddlots.
>> And you can chat about all these topics
24/7 in our Discord discord.gg/oddlots.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
>> [music]
[music]